[MUSIC]
Hello, and welcome back.
In this video, I'll be talking about the
precedence,
or the order of precedence, in which
operators follow.
Now, when you were at school, you might
have heard of something in math class
called BODMAS.
If you haven't don't worry about it I'll
explain it anyway.
But, the programming language of Python
and most other languages follow the order
of BODMAS, which is spelled B-O-D-M-A-S.
And what BODMAS tells us is the order from
left to
right in which logical operators such as
arithmetic, operators would follow.
The first one B, being the brackets or in
this case, parentheses.
So, if you were to have
something, for example, 15*2+25/4-2.
Now, what you'd expect the answer there to
come, might not be what you wanted to
happen.
And so, you'd use brackets as the, highest
order of precedence to sort out the
answer, now the answer for this is 34.25
and the reason for that, is
that 15 times by 2 gets evaluated first,
25 divided by 4 gets evaluated
as well then that entire thing is added
together and then 2 is subtracted from it.
And, the reason for that, is that the
brackets are, well, essentially invisible
because the rest of BODMAS states that,
order is next which is, exponential
powers.
But there aren't any of them, so ignores
that.
Go to next two which is division and
multiplication.
They have the same order of precedence
even though it's goes D then M in the.
suit, suitor name, it still has the same
order
of precedence it just, sort, sort of can
be
set but is in that order and so, division
and multiplication happen at the same time
and so, 15
times by 2 and 25 divided by 4, happen
at the same time and then the last two
letters
which are A and S, stand for addition and
subtraction and they are the next two
things that happen.
And so, you will notice that if we do 15
times by 2, we get 30.
If we do 25 divided by 4, we have 6.25.
And now, we have we have the minus 2 which
makes that 4.25, and so
what we get there in total is 36.25 minus
2, which is 34.25.
Now, the easier and better way to write
this, would have
been 15 times by 2 plus 25 divided by 4
minus 2.
That would be the better way to have
written it, and it gets you the
exact same answer, but looking at that,
you immediately know what's going to
happen when.
So, that is the order of precedence in
which objects and, automatic
logic, operators follows within Python and
most of the programming languages.
So, if you want to remember that, just
remember BODMAS, and it
stands for parentheses or brackets, order
or bridges the same as exponential powers.
Then division, multiplication, addition
and subtraction and that is a very useful
thing to remember if you want to remember
the order, and to work out what it
is re, should happen while shown during
calculations and like I said, I can't
I can't emphasize how much it helps to
have these brackets around each part.
You can have as many brackets as you like
within Python.
Within these, so you could have 15 times
by 2
plus and then we'll do 25 divided by 4
minus 2.
That would give you exact same answer and
it might
make things a bit easier for you to
understand as well,
with having that bracket, so and make sure
of it, all
of it happens as first, as the first thing
to happen.
But just make sure that you understand
that
BODMAS is the order in which it follows.
And, when you understand that order, it
will help you diagnose or debug the
problems which you may run into, with,
within future programs where the wrong
answer
is being given and it could be because you
just haven't, given the order of
precedence the correct order, so thank you
for watching and I'll see you soon.
[MUSIC]